---
categories: [Secure Application Development]
tags: [iec, iso]
---

# ISO/IEC 27034:2011

> Information technology - Security techniques - Application security

## Quick Reference

| Acronym | Backronym |
| - | - |
| ANF | Application Normative Framework |
| ASMP | Application Security Management Process |
| IEC | International Electrotechnical Commission |
| ISO | International Organization for Standardization |
| ONF | Organizational Normative Framework |

## Overview

ISO/IEC 27034 provides one of the most widely accepted set of standards and guidelines for secure application development. ISO/IEC 27034 is a comprehensive set of standards that cover many aspects of application development. It defines concepts, frameworks, and processes to help organizations integrate security within their software development lifecycle.

A few of the key elements include the organizational normative framework (ONF), the application normative framework (ANF), and the application security management process (ASMP).

ISO/IEC 27034 supports the concepts defined in ISO/IEC 27001 and provides a framework to implement the controls found in ISO/IEC 27002.

## Components

The ONF and ANF are used to build the ASMP.

### ONF

The ONF defines the organizational security best practices for all application development, and include several sections.

The ONF includes the application lifecycle reference model as well as roles and responsibilities (as shown below). It also contains an application specifications repository, which details the functional requirements for all applications.

Part of ISO/IEC 27034 lays out the ONF for all of the components of best practices with regard to application security. It is the container for all subcomponents of application security best practices catalogued and leveraged by an organization. The standard is composed of the following categories:

=== Business Context
Includes all application security policies, standards, and best practices adopted by the organization.
=== Regulatory Context
Includes all standards, laws, and regulations that affect application security.
=== Technical Context
Includes required and available technologies that are applicable to application security.
=== Specifications
Documents the organization's IT functional requirements and the solutions that are appropriate to address these requirements.
=== Roles, Responsibilities, and Qualifications
Documents the actors within an organization who are related to IT applications.
=== Processes
Relates to application security.
=== Application Security Control Library
Contains the approved controls that are required to protect an application based on the identified threats, the context, and the targeted **level of trust**.

- An ASC is a control that mitigates a security weakness within an application.*
  - Each ASC is paired to an application based on its contexts. These can be technical, regulatory, and business contexts.
  - Each ASC must include a verification measurement.

The Application Level of Trust is designed since not every application has the same need for security controls. Each ASC can fit within one or more levels of trust, commonly referred to as an "application level of trust."
===

ISO/IEC 27034 defines an ONF management process. This bidirectional process is meant to create a continuous improvement loop. Innovations that result from security a single application are returned to the ONF to strengthen all organization application security in the future.

!!!
ASC > ANF > ONF
!!!

### ANF

The ANF uses the applicable portions of the ONF on a specific application to achieve the needed security requirements or the target trust level.

The ANF is used together with the ONF in that it is created for a **specific application**. The ANF shares the applicable parts of the ONF needed to achieve an application's required level of security and the level of trust desired.

!!!
The ANF-to-ONF relationship is a one-to-one relationship; every application has an ANF that maps back to the ONF. However, the ONF-to-ANF relationship is one-to-many. The ONF has many ANFs, but the ANF only has one ONF.
!!!

### ASMP

ISO/IEC 27034 defines an ASMP to manage and maintain each ANF. The ASMP is created in five steps:

- Specifying the application requirements and environment
- Assessing application security risks
- Creating and maintaining the ANF
- Provisioning and operating the application
- Auditing the security of the application
