---
categories: [Standards, Security Management and Controls Standards]
label: ISO/IEC 27002:2022
tags: [iec, iso]
---

!!!danger
This page is currently queued for revision. It should probably be moved to frameworks since it is not technically a standard (it is just created by a standardization body).
!!!

# ISO/IEC 27002:2022: Information security, cybersecurity and privacy protection - Information security controls

## Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Initialisms

Short Form | Full Form
:--- | :---
IEC | International Electrotechnical Commission
ISMS | Information Security Management System
ISO | International Organization for Standardization

## Overview

ISO/IEC 27002:2022 is designed for organizations of all types and sizes. It is to be used as a reference for determining and implementing controls for information security risk treatment in an information security management system (ISMS) based on ISO/IEC 27001. It can also be used as a guidance document for organizations determining and implementing commonly accepted information security controls.

ISO/IEC 27002 provides guidelines for organizational information security standards including the selection, implementation, and management of controls taking into consideration the organization's information security risk environments.

It is designed to be used by organizations that intend to select controls within the process of implementing an ISMS based on ISO/IEC 27001.

!!!
ISO/IEC 27002 is how ISO/IEC 27001 is accomplished.
!!!
